+++
date = '2025-01-31T19:22:06+05:30'
draft = false
title = 'm1: Monthy Report: Jan 2025'
+++

# Monthly Report -`m1`:

- Started using `jrnl` cmd tool for taking notes & using it sort of like a journal.
- Merged [PR 2418](https://pagure.io/fedora-infra/ansible/pull-request/2418).
  - Migrating essential Information from `infra/hosts` to `infra/ansible`.
  - Manually copied the `notes` variable from each hosts on `infra/hosts`. In which the name of the hostname shouldn't be `phx2` and the same hostname should present in `infra/ansible` as well.
  - I was supposed to do it using a script, but I didn't have that much experience using scripts on remote servers.
  - So at the end, found 15 hostnames that matches the search and only 2 have `notes` variable in it with content inside them.(other mostly have none or no `notes` variable present inside them)
  - Adjusted `ansible/roles/base/motd.j2` by including the only `env` & `freezes` variable and removing all the information that is related to `CSI` and stuffs that points to `infra/hosts`.
  - Finally removed the variables in the `ansible/inventory/host_vars` such as `csi_primary_contacts`, `csi_purpose`, `csi_relationship` & `csi_security_category`.
  - However, I converted `csi_purpose` & `csi_relationship` into `notes` variable to store them, as the information is vital for future references.
  - More merge conflicts were raised while merging the PR, so 1 week of the time were wasted by just fixing the merge conflicts.
  - But it was worth doing it, because I got to understand how the infrastructure application were working and what are happening behind the scenes etc..
- Learning Docker and started doing basic stuffs.
  - Building images, app images, committing, history, layers and so on.
  - Run the `forgejo` container and self hosted in my local server.
  - Making small tweaks to prepare myself to work on the `forgejo migration` by **Fedora**.
- For some times, I was working on `zig` lang, but the language was just getting popular nowadays and the resources are also scarce. So at the end of Jan 2025, I switch from `zig` to `python` again!.
- Installed **Fedora KDE Spin**, and I love this desktop environment. More customizations and more shortcuts. I would say, GNOME is more user-friendly and KDE is developer-friendly.
